
    Avoid IDs for selectors—they're too tightly coupled with HTML
    Avoid !important. It means the specificity of your CSS is out of control!
    Don't use numbers at the start of a class or ID name
    Avoid trailing zeros in values e.g. 2em not 2.0em
    Use hyphens, not underscores, for multi-word ID or class names
    After general styles, order styles as they appear in the HTML
    The universal selector (wildcard) * is slow

indent your code properly: 2 spaces!
align opening and closing:
< tags > (HTML)
and { braces } (CSS and JavaScript)


Proximity

Proximity sets up visual cues that group similar items, suggesting how to ‘read’ content.

    Group related items with each other
    Use common styles to connect grouped items
    Sort complex content into groups for legibility

The BBC iPlayer website uses proximity and containment to group related items

The Guardian website groups ‘most popular’ news stories together


    Everything should be placed thoughtfully in the layout
    Every item is connected visually with other page elements


Alignment

Alignment enables page elements to be seen as part of a whole, creating a holistic feel to the various pieces of information.

A strict use of alignment on a former version of the Oslo-based design agency Heydays website gives a pleasing sense of coherence and simplicity.



Rep
    Repeat design themes throughout the interface
    Repetition provides consistency across design elements
    Consistent sizing and proportions strengthen style

Use:

    site-wide templates and partials for consistency
    style rules for content e.g. common image sizes (at least widths), matching heading styles…
    
    
Contrast

    Make distinctly different items look different
    Contrast makes content appear visually inviting

There are many ways to create contrast. For example:
colour, fonts, rules, column widths, etc.

    Javascript plugin site unheap.com uses bold colours
    A previous design for agency Touch used nice hover transitions (the current site is slow and annoying!)


